index.md, before:

---
title:  "陳捷	Jesse C. Chen"
author: "jcc at jessekelighine com"
header-includes:
	<link rel="icon" href="resources/sheep_color.png">
---

<img class="front_pic"
	alt="cover-image"
	src="resources/Griechisch-lateinisches_Quadrat_Ordnung_10-01.png"
	style="
		width: 100%;
		display: block;
		padding: 1em 0em;
		margin-right: auto;
		margin-left: auto;
		"
/>

## Popular Mathematics

- [**《塔木德》中的公平**](./talmud):
  在東西不夠的時候，怎麼分才*公平*呢？只有「按照比例分」才叫做公平嗎？
  看看兩位二十一世紀的經濟學家是怎麼解釋千年猶太經典《塔木德》中關於「公平」意想不到的故事吧。
- [**你能通過牛津大學的數學面試嗎？**](./oxford-entrance):
  數學的精神不在於複雜的計算，而是在於找尋規律與邏輯的思考。
  牛津大學的數學口試的其中一個問題不需要任何的計算就可以回答，
  你可以通過嗎？
- [**RPN Calculator**](https://jessekelighine.shinyapps.io/reverse-polish/):
  An online *Reverse Polish Notation* (RPN) calculator that also converts RPN into infix notation.

## Statistics

- [**Definiteness of Covariance Matrices**](./covariance-matrix):
  What do we mean when we compare covariances matrices through positive definiteness?
  A short intuitive interpretation.
- [**James-Stein Estimator**](james-stein_estimator/james-stein_estimator.pdf):
  A brief introduction to the James-Stein Estimator and its empirical Bayes motivation.
- [**Generalized Method of Moments**](gmm/presentation/gmm_presentation.pdf):
  A brief introduction to Generalized Method of Moments, aka *GMM*.
- [**Fisher Information**](./fisher-information):
  A brief introduction to Fisher Information and some related ideas.
- [**Markov Chain**](markov_chain/markov_chain.pdf):
  Concepts and results related to Markov chain,
  a proof of the Metropolis-Hastings Algorithm,
  and a proof of the Gibbs Sampling Algorithm.
- [**Sufficient Statistics**](sufficient-statistic/sufficient-statistic.pdf):
  Short definition and example of sufficient statistics.
- [**Mallow's Cp**](mallow_cp/mallow_cp.pdf):
  Motivating Mallow's $C_p$ criterion, one of the simplest model selection criterion.
- [**Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)**](akaike-information-criterion/aic.pdf):
  Motivating AIC, one of the most popular model selection criterion.

## Terminal Stuff

- [**vindent.vim**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/vindent.vim):
  A *minimal*, *modern* and *highly customizable* Vim plugin that provides indentation-based navigation motions and text objects by me.
- [**vim-bunttex**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/vim-bunttex):
  Minimal syntax highlighting for $\mathrm{\LaTeX}$.
- [**del**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/del):
  A minimal and safe alternative to `rm`.
- [**whenever**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/whenever):
  Run a command whenever a file/directory is changed.
- [**Makefile for Economists**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/makefile-for-economists):
  A practical introduction to `Makefile` for economists.

## Miscellanea

- [**中文量詞**](./quantifier):
  中文裡有很多相似、但是意義卻又微妙不同的量詞，像是「雙、副、對」或「條、根、支」。
  台灣的母語使用者會怎麼在這幾個量詞之間選擇呢？
  一個簡單的問卷調查結果。
- [**Kelighine 遊戲**](rulebook/rulebook.pdf):
  我國中莫名其妙發明的一款遊戲， 2020 年的時候想說可以把遊戲規則紀錄一下，以免變老之後就忘記了。
- [**Punkt Uhr**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/punkt-uhr):
  Making an illustration by one of my favourite artists [Anna Kövecses](https://anna-kovecses.com/) move!
- [**RE100: Taiwan Market Report 2020**](https://www.there100.org/our-work/publications/meeting-demand-supply-renewable-energy-market-briefing-taiwan):
  An RE100 report I helped create while interning at [CIER](https://www.cier.edu.tw/).
- [**18歲，投下你的第一票**](./resources/voting-pamphlet.pdf):
  2019 年教育部投票手冊。排版設計者：*我*。
- [**《申請覺迷錄》**](./grad-school-application)：
  申請碩班、博班的心得。
- [**Gallery**](./gallery):
  Some graphics and designs I've created.

Commit message:

add von Neumann Ergodicity Theorem

index.md, after:

---
title:  "陳捷	Jesse C. Chen"
author: "jcc at jessekelighine com"
header-includes:
	<link rel="icon" href="resources/sheep_color.png">
---

<img class="front_pic"
	alt="cover-image"
	src="resources/Griechisch-lateinisches_Quadrat_Ordnung_10-01.png"
	style="
		width: 100%;
		display: block;
		padding: 1em 0em;
		margin-right: auto;
		margin-left: auto;
		"
/>

## Popular Mathematics

- [**《塔木德》中的公平**](./talmud):
  在東西不夠的時候，怎麼分才*公平*呢？只有「按照比例分」才叫做公平嗎？
  看看兩位二十一世紀的經濟學家是怎麼解釋千年猶太經典《塔木德》中關於「公平」意想不到的故事吧。
- [**你能通過牛津大學的數學面試嗎？**](./oxford-entrance):
  數學的精神不在於複雜的計算，而是在於找尋規律與邏輯的思考。
  牛津大學的數學口試的其中一個問題不需要任何的計算就可以回答，
  你可以通過嗎？
- [**RPN Calculator**](https://jessekelighine.shinyapps.io/reverse-polish/):
  An online *Reverse Polish Notation* (RPN) calculator that also converts RPN into infix notation.

## Statistics

- [**Definiteness of Covariance Matrices**](./covariance-matrix):
  What do we mean when we compare covariances matrices through positive definiteness?
  A short intuitive interpretation.
- [**James-Stein Estimator**](james-stein_estimator/james-stein_estimator.pdf):
  A brief introduction to the James-Stein Estimator and its empirical Bayes motivation.
- [**Generalized Method of Moments**](gmm/presentation/gmm_presentation.pdf):
  A brief introduction to Generalized Method of Moments, aka *GMM*.
- [**Fisher Information**](./fisher-information):
  A brief introduction to Fisher Information and some related ideas.
- [**Markov Chain**](markov_chain/markov_chain.pdf):
  Concepts and results related to Markov chain,
  a proof of the Metropolis-Hastings Algorithm,
  and a proof of the Gibbs Sampling Algorithm.
- [**Sufficient Statistics**](sufficient-statistic/sufficient-statistic.pdf):
  Short definition and example of sufficient statistics.
- [**Mallow's Cp**](mallow_cp/mallow_cp.pdf):
  Motivating Mallow's $C_p$ criterion, one of the simplest model selection criterion.
- [**Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)**](akaike-information-criterion/aic.pdf):
  Motivating AIC, one of the most popular model selection criterion.
- [**von Neumann's Ergodicity Theorem**](von-neumann-ergodicity/von-neumann-ergodicity.pdf):
  An introduction to von Neumann's Ergodicity Theroem and its connection with convergence of Markov Chains.

## Terminal Stuff

- [**vindent.vim**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/vindent.vim):
  A *minimal*, *modern* and *highly customizable* Vim plugin that provides indentation-based navigation motions and text objects by me.
- [**vim-bunttex**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/vim-bunttex):
  Minimal syntax highlighting for $\mathrm{\LaTeX}$.
- [**del**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/del):
  A minimal and safe alternative to `rm`.
- [**whenever**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/whenever):
  Run a command whenever a file/directory is changed.
- [**Makefile for Economists**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/makefile-for-economists):
  A practical introduction to `Makefile` for economists.

## Miscellanea

- [**中文量詞**](./quantifier):
  中文裡有很多相似、但是意義卻又微妙不同的量詞，像是「雙、副、對」或「條、根、支」。
  台灣的母語使用者會怎麼在這幾個量詞之間選擇呢？
  一個簡單的問卷調查結果。
- [**Kelighine 遊戲**](rulebook/rulebook.pdf):
  我國中莫名其妙發明的一款遊戲， 2020 年的時候想說可以把遊戲規則紀錄一下，以免變老之後就忘記了。
- [**Punkt Uhr**](https://github.com/jessekelighine/punkt-uhr):
  Making an illustration by one of my favourite artists [Anna Kövecses](https://anna-kovecses.com/) move!
- [**RE100: Taiwan Market Report 2020**](https://www.there100.org/our-work/publications/meeting-demand-supply-renewable-energy-market-briefing-taiwan):
  An RE100 report I helped create while interning at [CIER](https://www.cier.edu.tw/).
- [**18歲，投下你的第一票**](./resources/voting-pamphlet.pdf):
  2019 年教育部投票手冊。排版設計者：*我*。
- [**《申請覺迷錄》**](./grad-school-application)：
  申請碩班、博班的心得。
- [**Gallery**](./gallery):
  Some graphics and designs I've created.
